Well, we're movin' on up
Movin' on up
To the East Side
To a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Movin' on up
To the East Side
We've finally got
a piece of the pie
Fish don't fry
in the kitchen
Beans don't burn
on the grill
Took a whole lot of tryin'
Just to get up that hill
Now we're up
in the big leagues
Gettin' our turn at bat
As long as we live,
it's you and me, baby
There ain't nothin' wrong
with that
We're movin' on up
Movin' on up
To the East Side
To a deluxe apartment
in the sky
Movin' on up
To the East Side
We've finally got
a piece of the pie
Sure is a beautiful morning,
ain't it, baby?
Mmm.
But it's cold
out there, though.
Know how I can tell?
Mmm-hmm.
Because all the pigeons
on the terrace
are wearing earmuffs.
I got to
hand it to you, Weezy.
You've burnt my bacon
just right today.
Wonderful.
You didn't hear
a word I said, did you?
Huh?
Oh, yes, I did.
More coffee, right?
I ain't finished
that cup yet.
Good.
Would you get your head
out of that damn book?
What the hell
is that anyway?
It's a wonderful book.
I got it to improve my memory.
Oh! George!
Your cup was still full.
Why did you
ask for more coffee?
You don't need a memory book.
You need a hearing aid.
I'm sorry,
but this is fun, George.
You use key words
to help you remember.
For example, if you wanted
to remember the alphabet,
you say, "Animals are
gathered in the barn,
"where we see
a cow standing
next to a donkey..."
Oh, Weezy, that's ridiculous.
I already know my alphabet.
Besides, ain't no barns
in New York.
Well, what's that
got to do with it?
There aren't any donkeys
in New York either.
Oh, no? One just
bought that book.
I've already memorized
a lot of useful information.
Like what?
Like all
the state capitals.
Hmm.
Go ahead.
Ask me a state capital
from any state.
North Dakota.
Okay.
All I got to do
is remember the key words.
Mmm.
North, day, coat.
I picture a man on a stallion,
riding north for a day,
wearing a fancy coat.
Weezy, that don't
make no sense.
Yes, it does,
because the man
on the stallion
is the famous
German military leader.
You put that all together
and you've got
the state capital.
Hitlerhorse?
Of course not.
It's Bismarck.
What difference does it make?
I ain't ever going there.
But I am going to work.
See you later, Weez.
Aren't you forgetting
something, George?
No.
See? I don't need nothing
to help me remember.
Would you like
to borrow my memory book?
I just did that to test you.
Oh, good morning,
Mr. Jefferson, sir.
I'm glad I caught you
at home.
Ralph, look, I already got
my paper, thanks.
Oh, this isn't your paper,
Mr. Jefferson. It's mine.
Well, actually, it's
Mr. Hackenschmitt's paper,
19B.
He dropped it
in the wastebasket
on his way out this morning.
I always say,
"Waste not, want not."
A little yogurt there.
Our Mr. Hackenschmitt
loves his health food.
Oh, look, Ralph,
if you don't mind,
I'm on my way to work.
Oh, yes, sir, but I must
talk to you about a tip.
A tip for what? You ain't
did nothing but made me late.
Sir, it isn't a tip for me,
it's for you.
Oh, you're going
to give me some money.
In a manner
of speaking, yes, sir.
You see, last night,
I stopped off
at Charlie's Bar
and I overheard
a couple of gentlemen
discussing
a hot stock tip.
Stock? Uh-uh.
Look, anybody that
buys some stock
just because of something
they overhear
from somebody
they don't even know
is a sucker.
I quite agree, sir.
That's why I thought
you'd be interested in this.
Say what?
This, sir.
H.L.W. Funding Corporation?
What's so special about that?
Well, sir, I put two and two
together and made one.
Huh. I got a tip
for you, Ralph.
See a psychiatrist...
Or a math teacher.
I mean one big man, sir.
Somebody I'm close to
every day.
As a matter of fact,
I walk his little dog,
Capital Gains, every morning.
His initials are H.L...
Whittendale!
You are astute, sir.
You put together
your two and two
even quicker than
I put together my two and two.
That's why
I'm on this side of the door
and you're on that side.
There you go again, sir.
I sure wish I had your brains.
Oh, they probably
wouldn't work in your head.
It's the wrong color.
Anyway, sir,
from what I heard,
this stock,
which is now selling
at a dollar a share,
will, inside of a month,
quadruple.
Five times as much?
I'm going to make a fortune.
Thanks, Ralph.
Ah, thank you, sir.
You won't tell nobody else
about this, will you?
Well, sir, sometimes I do
tend to gossip a little.
But just to
a few old friends.
My lips are sealed, sir.
Thank you, Ralph.
Well, now I've got to call
my stockbroker. Oh, boy!
Money falling from everywhere
around the world.
George, I thought
you had left.
Mmm. I'm calling
my stockbroker.
Damn it, the line's busy.
I'll bet everybody
and his brother
trying to get in on it.
George, you've got
that look in your eye again.
Come on, Weezy,
we just finished
eating breakfast.
I mean you are thinking
of taking another wild plunge
in the stock market,
aren't you?
This is a sure thing.
That's what you said about
soybeans, and lost your shirt.
Don't worry.
This is money in the bank.
That's what you said about
soybeans, and lost your shirt.
But look, Weezy,
this is different.
See? Pacific Stock Exchange.
H.L.W. Funding Corporation.
See?
So?
So what do the initials
H.L.W. stand for?
"Husband Loses Wife"?
Henry L. Whittendale,
the bank president.
It's his company.
And see what
he's selling it for?
A dollar a share.
That's a steal.
Oh, it's still busy.
I hope the smart money
don't start buying in.
Well, the dumb money sure is.
Oh, hello, Tom.
Hi, Louise. I'm just returning
your hot-water bottle.
Oh, thanks.
Is your electric blanket
working again?
Oh, this wasn't for our bed.
I wanted it for
the football game
we went to last night.
Oh, was it a good game?
I don't know.
We didn't stay.
Why?
Willis, you gonna
hang around all day?
Good morning, George.
Oh, the financial page.
Taking another plunge
in the stock market?
No, he's taking
another dive into the soup.
I keep telling you, Weezy,
this is a sure thing.
Look, any of
Whittendale's companies
is a good investment,
especially for
a dollar a share.
Look...
A dollar a share?
Whittendale
is strictly blue-chip.
What company
are you talking about?
Company? I didn't hear me
talking about no company.
Ah, come on, George,
you can tell me.
Yeah, I can
tell you goodbye.
Well, I'm probably better off
not knowing. Bye, Louise.
Oh, Tom, wait a minute.
This isn't our
hot-water bottle.
Oh, dear, you noticed.
Ours was a red one.
A thin red one.
What?
I used it for a seat warmer
at the game.
Unfortunately, I picked a seat
with a large splinter on it.
And that's why you...
BOTH:
Didn't stay to see the game.
I dripped all the way home.
Still busy. Oh, I got
to get down to the store.
Where have you been?
Out jogging around the block.
I'm in training.
Good. It's about time
you learned how to
move faster.
Oh, it ain't for that.
See, Mrs. Jefferson,
some of the ladies
in our church
decided to take this class
in self-defense.
Oh, good for you.
What do they teach you?
Well, it's a kind of Judo.
And it's so polite.
Polite?
Yeah.
You face your opponent,
smile at him real nice,
bow to him,
and then you kick him
below the belt.
Ugh!
What you learning that for?
You thinking
about getting married?
I'm learning it because
most of the women I know
is afraid to walk
the streets at night.
So are most of the men.
Look, you're
wasting your time.
There ain't no woman
no match for no man.
Ha! You wrong
about that, honey.
Just come at me.
This is the most
ridiculous thing...
Ha! Ooh!
What the hell
kind of fighting is that?
Dirty. The same way
the muggers fight.
Now get on your feet, turkey.
Ow! Hey!
And here's how we call
for the police.
That's very good, Florence.
Are you all right, George?
Are you kidding?
I've just been attacked
by the bionic maid.
Hi-ya!
Let me out of here.
Hey, Weezy, send this special
delivery for me, will you?
All right.
And keep calling
that stockbroker.
Tell him I want 5000 shares
of H.L.W. Funding Corporation.
Five thousand?
George, that's a lot of...
Weezy, what's on the back
of that envelope?
"Make sure flap is sealed."
Got the message?
Weezy! Weezy!
She's out shopping, pop.
What's up?
I'll tell you what's up.
H.L.W. Funding,
that's what's up.
So?
So it's up to
$5 a share.
I bought 5000 shares
at a dollar.
You mean you're 20,000 ahead?
In just two days!
This stock is gonna
keep going up and up and up!
All right!
I knew what
I was doing! Shoot.
I know my stuff, man.
LOUISE: Somebody
open the door for me!
Hey, Lionel, help your mother
with this stuff.
Put all the groceries
in the kitchen
because we are going out
on the town to celebrate.
Celebrate what?
Your husband's intelligence.
Oh, just a small
celebration.
Good one, Weezy,
but the joke is on you.
Remember that stock
I told you to order for me?
Stock?
H.L.W. Funding Corporation.
Oh, yes. What about it?
We hit the jackpot.
It's up to $5 a share!
Five dollars a share?
Are you sure?
There it is.
Look, go get changed,
because the
wolf of Wall Street
will be howling tonight.
Hey!
Five dollars a share?
Hey, mom, you want me
to put the meat
in the freezer?
Five dollars a share?
Yeah. Pop sure made a killing.
That's nothing to the killing
he's going to make
when he finds out
I forgot to call the broker.
How am I going to tell him?
What am I going to tell him?
Mom, you forgot.
People do forget.
Yes, but I'm not supposed to.
Why not?
Because I'd learned
that the animals
are gathered at the barn,
where they see a cow
standing next to a donkey.
Are you all right, mom?
Of course I'm not.
I'm a nervous wreck.
Your father
will never forgive me.
But you didn't
do it on purpose.
I know that,
but he'll think I did.
I was against it
in the first place
and he'll never believe
that I really forgot.
Forgot what?
Ah... Uh, ribs.
I know how you love ribs
and I forgot to buy them.
That ain't the only thing
you forgot, is it?
It isn't?
You forgot something
more important
than the ribs, didn't you?
George, I want
you to know
I didn't do it deliberately.
You've got to
believe that!
It's okay, Weez.
It is?
Yeah, because
with all this excitement,
I almost forgot myself.
You almost forgot what?
The same thing
you forgot.
What do you think
I forgot?
That we're going out
on the town tonight.
Ain't that right?
Yes, that's it.
Weezy, when I told you
to call that stockbroker
and order
the 5000 shares,
the look you had
on your face was...
Just like the look on it now.
Uh, George, I, um...
I have to tell you something.
Go ahead.
Not now, George. Later.
When?
On our 50th
wedding anniversary.
Weezy, you said
you had...
Oh, stop
hounding me, George!
Okay, okay.
Forget it, hmm.
That's what I did.
Huh?
Lionel, you tell him.
Uh-uh.
No, children should be seen
and not heard.
Look, Weez,
you got something
to tell me or not?
Okay.
It's...
It's, uh...
It's the doorbell!
What's wrong with you?
I've got to get the door!
What's wrong with your mother?
Nothing.
And there's nothing wrong
with you either.
I love you both.
Oh, Tom!
Come in. Come in!
Look who's here, Tom Willis.
Sit down, Tom.
George, maybe Tom
would like a drink.
Oh, no, no.
No, thanks.
Well, I'll have a double.
A double what?
Whatever's the quickest.
Can't you wait till we go out?
Oh, you're going out?
I wish I'd known.
I would have told
Mr. Whittendale
to make it
some other night.
Whittendale to make what
some other night?
I got into a conversation
with him a little while ago
down in the garage.
What's he doing
down there?
Working on
his car engine.
Hah. See that, Weezy?
That's how the rich
get richer.
See, Whittendale don't spend
his money on no mechanic.
No, no, no.
That's his hobby.
He loves working
on his 1941 Packard.
Why don't he just
get a new car?
He's got enough money.
Well, actually...
Never mind that.
What were you talking
to Whittendale about?
How well you were doing
with that new company of his.
What did he say?
He said,
"What new company?"
He's probably wondering how
I found out about it, huh?
Maybe that's why
he wanted to stop by
and talk to you tonight.
What? Whittendale's
coming to see me?
Well, that's what he said,
but since you're going out...
Who's going out?
Look, I wouldn't
leave this building now
if King Kong was hanging
from the terrace.
Huh!
I've been trying
to meet that dude
since we moved in here!
I better get dressed.
You are dressed.
Oh, yeah. Ah!
Imagine that, Weezy.
Whittendale's coming
to see me.
We're on our way, Weez,
and who knows
where we'll end up.
If I'm lucky, just divorced.
Well, I guess
I'd better be going.
Good idea.
What?
Oh, thanks.
You done me
a good favor.
It was nothing.
I know. I'm just
trying to be polite.
Oh. Oh, oh!
You really scared me
half to death.
How?
You almost
said something nice.
Well, come on, Weezy!
Don't just sit there!
Get this place
cleaned up.
Lionel! Get out here.
Where's the fire?
Under your feet.
Run down to the store
and get those magazines
that nobody ever reads.
Huh?
The kind they have
in dentists' offices.
Oh, you mean like
U.S. Finance
and Consumer Reports?
Right. I got to make
an impression on Whittendale.
It's important
what he thinks.
Pop, he's gonna think
you steal your magazines
from your dentist.
Just get going.
Pick me up a copy
of my Wall Street Journal.
Okay.
Whoo-hoo-hoo!
Wow, it's been
a heck of a day, Weez.
Whittendale's
coming to see me.
I just made me
20,000 bucks.
Money isn't everything,
George.
Yeah, you're right, Weezy.
Money isn't being poor.
Money isn't being hungry.
Money isn't being cold.
Everything that money isn't,
I'm glad we ain't got.
Uh, George, I hate
to spoil your evening,
but I've got to be
honest with you.
What's that supposed
to mean?
It means I have to tell you
the truth about something,
and you're not
going to like it.
Weezy, don't tell me
you've been messing around
behind my back.
You know I wouldn't
do anything like that.
Oh. Well, if it ain't that,
it can't be that bad.
Ha-ha-ha!
You sure
you won't get mad?
How could I get mad at
a wonderful woman like you?
Oh, okay, George.
I forgot to call the broker
and order your stock.
You forgot?
She f...
She forgot!
Of all the dumb,
stupid...
Wonderful?
Look, how could you
remember something
as hard as
Hitlerhorse,
North Dakota,
and forget something as simple
as making a phone call?
I didn't forget
the phone call.
The keywords were Kojak,
bogus and Culligan Man.
What the hell
is that supposed to mean?
You see, "Kojak" means
Telly Savalas.
"Bogus" is phony,
and "Culligan Man"
is something you call.
"Telly," "phony," "call."
Tellyphony call.
Get it?
Yeah, I got it,
but evidently, you didn't!
How come you didn't
make the phone call?
Because I forgot
who I was calling.
Oh, no!
What the hell is that?
Well, how should I know?
But whatever it is,
it's getting closer.
Open the door!
Oh, it's that dumb Florence.
Call the police.
Quick!
Don't let him get away!
Police!
Stop blowing that damn thing!
What's happening?
A mugger tried to
attack me in the elevator.
What?
Oh, my God.
Are you all right?
Yeah, thanks
to my Judo.
I'll get him.
Wait, hold it. I ain't
got no Judo training.
The elevator door just shut.
He's on the way to the lobby.
Call and tell Ralph
to grab him.
Ralph?
He'll do anything for a tip.
Yeah, you're right.
You'd better sit down.
You must be
quite shaken up.
No, I'm fine.
I was the winner.
Hello, Ralph?
George Jefferson.
Look, a man just tried to mug
Florence on the elevator.
The elevator's on its way to
the lobby. Grab him! Grab him!
Florence, tell us
what happened.
Well, one of the main
things they taught us
in our self-defense class
was to watch out
for strange men in elevators.
Of course, that don't mean
you don't have to be careful
in the streets
and in subways...
The elevator, Florence.
What happened
in the elevator?
Oh, well, see,
I got on the elevator
and I pushed a button
to go up,
but instead of going up,
it went down, to the basement.
And then this man got on,
and he was wearing
this dirty old jacket
and these dirty old pants.
And he looked at me
with his dirty old beady eyes.
Go on. Go on!
I knew right away he didn't
belong in this building.
And that's when you hit him?
No, because
I still wasn't sure.
I just kind of stared
at him like this.
Did that
make him nervous?
It sure did,
because then he said,
"My, isn't it warm in here?"
And he took off his jacket.
And a big wrench
fell out right on the floor.
That's when you
let him have it?
No.
That's when he
picked up the wrench.
And that's when you
let him have it?
No.
Will you shut up
and let her tell the story?
Go on, Florence.
Well, I still wasn't sure,
but when the elevator stopped
at this floor and I got off,
he got off
and started to follow me.
Mmm. Well?
Well, ain't you going
to say it?
Say what?
"That's when you
let him have it"?
'Cause that's when
I let him have it.
Oh, Florence, what
a terrible experience.
Florence,
you did great.
That turkey's lucky he wasn't
there when I ran out.
I'd have tied fire
to his tail. Hello?
Ralph! Did you get him?
Good. Huh?
Say what?
You're kidding.
Look, Ralph, forget I called.
There's 20 bucks in it
for you.
Okay? Good.
You know who that man was
on the elevator?
Jack the Ripper.
No, you dummy. You just
Judoed H.L. Whittendale.
Whittendale? He lives
in the penthouse.
That turkey followed me
out on this floor.
Because he was
coming to see me!
Oh, my goodness gracious!
Lord, have mercy!
You mean I hit
an innocent man?
I'll never forgive myself.
Good, because
that makes two of us.
George, don't yell
at Florence.
She didn't know
who he was.
Well, I hope he
didn't know who she was.
Only way I'll get to
see him now is in court.
Hey, did you hear
what just happened?
Mr. Whittendale was just
attacked in the elevator.
No? Mr. Whittendale?
Who would do
a thing like that?
How is he?
Oh, he's all right now.
Just a little shaken up,
that's all.
Thank you,
heavenly Father.
Did he see
who hit him?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, no.
He said the man was disguised
as a middle-aged lady.
Who's middle-aged?
Look, stay out of this,
Florence.
This don't concern you.
Just get back
in the kitchen and attack
those pots and pans.
Middle-aged? Hmm!
Who's he calling
middle-aged?
He's old as Methuselah!
Well, wait till you
hear the story
about the stock
that pop invested in.
I don't want to hear
any more about it.
Look what they're
calling it, pop.
"The sensation
of Wall Street."
Did you hear that, Weezy?
I said I don't
want to hear it.
Brokers say they've never seen
anything like it.
Did you hear that?
Lionel, why are you
rubbing it in?
"H.L.W.,
the Horace Logan Wayburn
Funding Corporation..."
Wayburn?
"...is the biggest fraud
since gold bricks."
What!
I can't hear you.
It's all a scam.
A rip-off.
You know, you're lucky mom
didn't make that phone call.
Yeah.
She saved you
5000 bucks.
Hey! Hey, Weezy...
I don't want
to hear it.
No, no, no. It's all right,
Weezy. I love you!
You do?
That's right.
I love you.
Oh, George.
You're so good to me.
How can you be so forgiving?
That's the kind
of man I am.
Ha, ha, ha! Ooh!
LOUISE: The Jeffersons was
recorded on tape in front of
a studio audience.